README.md, before:

# painted
plain text notification daemon

## Overview
painted is a dead simple notification daemon: it reads commands from a file
(which may be a UNIX socket for IPC or any text file such as stdin for
simplicity), notifications from dbus, and writes output to a given file (usually
stdout). It aims to be a UNIX-ish replacement for standard notification daemons,
primarily for usage with bars.

Despite the name (a rough contraction of the initialism PTND, for Plain Text
Notification Daemon), the scope of PTND is not limited to plain text: planned
features include actions, sounds, and more. The goal is to achieve 'minimalism'
through an unrestrictive design that facilitates scripting, run-time
modification, and, of course, completeness.

## Usage

### In General
With no other notification daemons running, run the server (with the command
`painted`). If you send a notification with `notify-send`, you should see it
show up in the terminal window where you've run painted.

With no arguments, painted defaults to reading input commands from stdin.
Available commands (those currently implemented shown checked) are:

- [ ] help (list commands)
- [x] clear (print a blank line to hide the notification)
- [ ] dismiss
- [ ] remove (remove the notification from history: does not imply dismissal)
- [x] previous (show the previous notification)
- [x] next (show the next notification)
- [ ] action \<N> (select the n\'th action)
- [x] exit (close the server)

You may specify the input and output file anywhere, including /dev/stdin
(default in) and /dev/stdout (default out). If you want to control it from a
different file, specify it. For instance, in bars, you wouldn't want to have
input be given over stdin because there is no (convenient) way to access a
processes' stdin without an interactive shell.

If the input file ends in `.sock`, painted connects to it as a client on a UNIX
socket.

### In Polybar
Polybar provides the script input, where a running command's stdout will be
displayed as text. You can define a module with the following options, and
invoke it in a bar definition:

```ini
[module/painted]
type = custom/script
exec = "painted --input /tmp/painted.in"
tail = true

click-left = "echo 'clear' >> /tmp/painted.in"
scroll-up = "echo 'previous' >> /tmp/painted.in"
scroll-down = "echo 'next' >> /tmp/painted.in"
```

### Somewhere else?

If you have a specific bar or application that would benefit from unique
usage instructions, open an issue and ask for them, or write it out
yourself and submit a pull request!

# Roadmap and TODOs
This isn't supposed to be one of those highly minimal UNIX utilities, but it's
also not supposed to be massive. That said, here's what I'm currently wanting to
implement:

- Basic: everything necessary before I tag a 1.0.0
  - [x] Actually record notifications (obviously)
  - [x] Notification history and navigation
  - [x] persistence
  - [ ] Command matching by prefix (i.e., only `pr` to activate `previous` so
        long as no other command begins with `pr`)
  - [ ] notification format strings
  - [ ] body text (maybe with an `expand` command)
- Additional: everything that would be nice to have, but not actually necessary
  as part of a notification daemon:
  - [ ] Do not disturb mode (would require some somewhat major restructuring)
  - [ ] Sounds
  - [ ] Actions

Commit message:

move examples to contrib/ directory

README.md, after:

# painted
plain text notification daemon

## Overview
painted is a dead simple notification daemon: it reads commands from a file
(which may be a UNIX socket for IPC or any text file such as stdin for
simplicity), notifications from dbus, and writes output to a given file (usually
stdout). It aims to be a UNIX-ish replacement for standard notification daemons,
primarily for usage with bars.

Despite the name (a rough contraction of the initialism PTND, for Plain Text
Notification Daemon), the scope of PTND is not limited to plain text: planned
features include actions, sounds, and more. The goal is to achieve 'minimalism'
through an unrestrictive design that facilitates scripting, run-time
modification, and, of course, completeness.

## Usage

### In General
With no other notification daemons running, run the server (with the command
`painted`). If you send a notification with `notify-send`, you should see it
show up in the terminal window where you've run painted.

With no arguments, painted defaults to reading input commands from stdin.
Available commands (those currently implemented shown checked) are:

- [ ] help (list commands)
- [x] clear (print a blank line to hide the notification)
- [ ] dismiss
- [ ] remove (remove the notification from history: does not imply dismissal)
- [x] previous (show the previous notification)
- [x] next (show the next notification)
- [ ] action \<N> (select the n\'th action)
- [x] exit (close the server)

You may specify the input and output file anywhere, including /dev/stdin
(default in) and /dev/stdout (default out). If you want to control it from a
different file, specify it. For instance, in bars, you wouldn't want to have
input be given over stdin because there is no (convenient) way to access a
processes' stdin without an interactive shell.

If the input file ends in `.sock`, painted connects to it as a client on a UNIX
socket.

### Some Specific Config Files
Check the contrib/ folder for some config files that invoke painted in a way
that makes sense. Note that the contrib directory isn't super well-maintained,
and just exists as a dumping ground for stuff that you may or may not want to
use[^1].

### Somewhere else?

If you have a specific bar or application that would benefit from unique
usage instructions, open an issue and ask for them, or write it out
yourself and submit a pull request!

# Roadmap and TODOs
This isn't supposed to be one of those highly minimal UNIX utilities, but it's
also not supposed to be massive. That said, here's what I'm currently wanting to
implement:

- Basic: everything necessary before I tag a 1.0.0
  - [x] Actually record notifications (obviously)
  - [x] Notification history and navigation
  - [x] persistence
  - [ ] Command matching by prefix (i.e., only `pr` to activate `previous` so
        long as no other command begins with `pr`)
  - [ ] notification format strings
  - [ ] body text (maybe with an `expand` command)
- Additional: everything that would be nice to have, but not actually necessary
  as part of a notification daemon:
  - [ ] Do not disturb mode (would require some somewhat major restructuring)
  - [ ] Sounds
  - [ ] Actions

[^1]: https://drewdevault.com/2020/06/06/Add-a-contrib-directory.html
